# Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning #

While artificial intelligence and machines that learn may sound like topics from science fiction, our modern world is full of “intelligent” machines that process data and make decisions not unlike the way humans do. Traditional computers can only perform the specific tasks for which they have been programmed. When a computer has the ability to independently make decisions without direct instruction, that is **Artificial Intelligence** (AI). AI can employ many layers of **algorithms**, a process of problem-solving rules, to respond to new situations in a way that traditional computers can’t. From self-driving vehicles to spell check and predictive text, AI is assisting the world with all kinds of work.

How is your music streaming service able to predict which new songs you’ll probably enjoy hearing? How does your social media service recognize your face even when you haven’t been tagged in the photo? These systems work with huge amounts of data and find ways to sort it into meaningful identifications for decision making -- a process called **Machine Learning** (ML). There are three methods by which computer systems learn: Supervised, Unsupervised, and Reinforcement. In **supervised learning**, the system is given pre-identified examples to use as a reference. When the system encounters new data, it is compared to the examples to help determine the new data’s classification. With **unsupervised learning**, the system finds its own patterns when analyzing data and sorts it into logical categories. New data is compared to the patterns and categorized accordingly. Both of these methods can be supplemented by **reinforcement**, when a system can hone its accuracy by receiving feedback on whether a decision is correct or incorrect, and modifying its algorithm accordingly. Just like with humans, practice makes perfect. The more data a system learns with, the more accurate its future decisions can be. 

It is also important to acknowledge the ethical hazards that exist with machine learning, especially on the topic of **bias**. Machines that learn from biased data sets can perpetuate that bias, causing unfair or inaccurate outcomes. Biased data sets can be anything from scientifically incomplete or statistically skewed information, to socially or morally questionable content created by people with conscious or unconscious prejudice or favoritism. AI systems are rapidly being integrated into society everywhere in fields as diverse as medical diagnoses, job applicant reviews, plagiarism detection, and criminal justice profiling. AI is an automated decision making process, which can be inequitable or even harmful when left to itself without the contextual awareness that human minds possess.

The following sequence of activities explores a variety of machine learning techniques. All of them use different **sensing** methods for the machine to perceive its environment, whether it’s “feeling” with the touch sensor, “seeing” with the ultrasonic sensor or color sensor, or “hearing” with your computer’s onboard microphone. Students will utilize various **data structures** in their coding, allowing the machine to construct representations of their experiences which will inform their learning and decision-making. 
