## AI Lesson 5: Visual Cues ##

Train your LEGO SPIKE Puppy to follow your visual commands, such as hand signals and body poses.

**Design Brief:**

You may choose to design and build your own robotic pet using your SPIKE kit, and feel free to reference the placemat for inspiration! Make sure that your model is able to respond to your commands by performing at least two different actions. 

Using an API that works with online artificial intelligence, train your puppy to respond to your visual cues. In this case, the AI source will be Google’s TeachableMachine. The data generated by the TeachableMachine will be stored in AirTable (a multi-use online data storage app), and relayed to your SPIKE through AirTable. 

**Think about these questions:**
* In what circumstances would it be useful to activate machines and systems with visual commands? 
* What kinds of visual cues will you use for your commands? What reactions will those commands trigger in your puppy?
* Using an API requires using information that is specific to your account. Keeping this information secure is very important. How will you keep your API information safe?

**Hints:**

* TeachableMachine uses body poses in PoseNet. It can easily recognize a person’s head, torso, and full-body movements. Think of ways you can orient your body to create command gestures.
* Try to make your visual commands as different as possible. For example, tilting your head to the left for one command, and tilting your head to the right for a different command. 
* Closely follow the instructions in README.md to set up your AirTable account, acquire your API key and Base ID, and transfer data from TeachableMachine.

Your design should be able to accurately recognize at least two different commands, and execute them upon seeing them through your computer’s webcam. 

Work with your partner to document your initial ideas. Decide how you will evaluate these ideas to pick the best one(s) for your project. Share with another group or your teacher why you chose this solution.

Communicate the results of your group’s work by creating a presentation that demonstrates the functionality of your puppy and the code. 

Ask for feedback and conduct a self-assessment. Use the evaluation tools your teacher has provided.
